Add EIP-5496: Multi-privilege Management Extension for EIP-721 (#5496)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-5496.md

status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-7-30
requires: 721
---

## Abstract
This specification defines standard functions that extends current [EIP-721](./eip-721.md) standard providing sharable multiple privileges for a NFT collection. The privileges could be the 1) on-chain ones, such as voting rights, or to claim a targeted airdrop; 2) or off-chain ones, such as a coupon in Amazon, or a discount in a local New York restaurant, or even a VIP lounge access in the airport.  There could be multiple privileges attached to one NFT and each privilege holder of an NFT can transfer the privilege to others. The ownership of the privileges is verifiable. On top of the multiple-privilege extension, this standard also contains methods to give the provider to specify the privilege non-sharable or sharable. Sharable privileges can be done by simply cloning a privilege, furthermore, the provider would be able to adjust the details of privileges according to the spreading path. Expiration period can also be set to each privilege. The proposal depends on and extends the existing [EIP-721](./eip-721.md).

> 
> You can find a draft of the system here: GitHub - [EIP5496: A contract to manage sharable multi-privilege NFTs](https://github.com/wnft/EIP5496)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Required: no external links

    /// @param privilegeId The identifier of the queried privilege
    /// @param referrer The address of the referrer
    /// @return Whether the operation is sucessful or not
    function clonePrivilege(uint tokenId, uint privId, address referrer) external returns (bool);
}
```
The `PrivilegeCloned` event MUST be emitted when `clonePrivilege` is called.

## Rationale

### Multiple privileges

EIP-721 only records the ownership and its transfer, the privileges of an NFT are not recorded on-chain. This extension would allow merchants/projects to give out a certain privilege to a specified group of people, and owners of the privileges can manage each one of the privileges independently. This facilitates a great possibility for NFTs to have real usefulness. 

### Sharable privileges

The number of privilege holders is limited by the number of NFTs if privileges are non-sharable. A sharable privilege means the original privilege holder can copy the privilege and give it to the others, not transferring his/her own privilege to the others. This mechanism greatly enhances the spread of privileges as well as the adoption of NFTs. 

## Backwards Compatibility

> ERC5496 is compatible with any kind of NFTs that follow the EIP-721 standard. It only adds more functions and data structures without interfering with the original EIP-721 standard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This EIP is compatible with any kind of NFTs that follow the EIP-721 standard. It only adds more functions and data structures without interfering with the original EIP-721 standard.
```
Required: No self-references

> ## Test Cases
> Test cases are implemented in the reference implementation
> repository [here](https://github.com/wnft/ERC5496/tree/main/test)
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Required: No external links

## Reference Implementation

> The following is a snippet for reference implementation of the `ERC5496` extension. The full repository can be
> found [here](https://github.com/wnft/ERC5496/blob/main/contracts/ERC5496.sol)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Required: no external links
Recommended: It is implied that what follows is the reference impl, so no need to restate it

---
eip: 5496

> title:  Multi-privilege Management Extension for ERC-721

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title:  Multi-privilege Management Extension for EIP-721
```

> description: Standard interface for creating sharable multi-privilege NFTs for ERC-721

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Standard interface for creating sharable multi-privilege NFTs for EIP-721
```

author: Jeremy Z (@wnft)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-draft-erc-721-multi-privilege-management-extension/10427
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-7-30
requires: 721
---

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Recommended: Formatting

## Abstract

> This specification defines standard functions that extends current [ERC-721](./eip-721.md) standard providing sharable multiple privileges for a NFT collection. The privileges could be the 1) on-chain ones, such as voting rights, or to claim a targeted airdrop; 2) or off-chain ones, such as a coupon in Amazon, or a discount in a local New York restaurant, or even a VIP lounge access in the airport.  There could be multiple privileges attached to one NFT and each privilege holder of an NFT can transfer the privilege to others. The ownership of the privileges is verifiable. On top of the multiple-privilege extension, this standard also contains methods to give the provider to specify the privilege non-sharable or sharable. Sharable privileges can be done by simply cloning a privilege, furthermore, the provider would be able to adjust the details of privileges according to the spreading path. Expiration period can also be set to each privilege. The proposal depends on and extends the existing [ERC-721](./eip-721.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This specification defines standard functions that extend the [EIP-721](./eip-721.md) standard providing sharable multiple privileges for an NFT collection. The privileges could be on-chain ones, such as voting rights, or the right to claim a targeted airdrop, or off-chain ones, such as an Amazon coupon, a discount at a local New York restaurant, or even a VIP lounge access in an airport. There could be multiple privileges attached to one NFT and each privilege holder of an NFT can transfer the privilege to others. The ownership of the privileges is verifiable. On top of the multiple-privilege extension, this standard also contains methods to give the provider to specify the privilege as non-sharable or sharable. Sharable privileges can be done by simply cloning a privilege, furthermore, the provider would be able to adjust the details of privileges according to the spreading path. The expiration period can also be set to each privilege. The proposal depends on and extends the existing [EIP-721](./eip-721.md).
```
Required: Replace ERC with EIP
Required: Grammar fix
Recommended: Rephrasing

> 
> You can find a draft of the system here: GitHub - [ERC721-P: A contract to manage sharable multi-privilege NFTs](https://github.com/wnft/ERC721P)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Required: Remove external link
Required: Formatting

## Motivation
Many NFTs have functions other than just being used as profile pictures or collection of art works, they may have real utilities in different scenarios. For example, a fashion store may give a discount for its own NFT holders; a DAO member NFT holder can vote for the proposal of how to use their treasury; some dApp may create an airdrop event to attract a certain group of people like some bluechip NFT holders to claim; Walmart can issue its membership card on chain(NFT) and give certain privileges when the members shop at the Walmart stores, etc. There are cases when people who own NFTs do not necessarily want to / not being able to use privileges. By providing additional data recording different privileges a NFT collection has and interfaces to manage them, users can now transfer or sell privileges without losing their ownership of the NFT.

## Specification
The key words “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”, “SHOULD NOT”, “RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

> Every contract compliant to the `ERC721P` extension MUST implement the `IERC721P` interface. The **
> sharable multi-privilege extension** is OPTIONAL for ERC-721 contracts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every contract compliant to the `ERC721P` extension MUST implement the `IERC721P` interface. The **sharable multi-privilege extension** is OPTIONAL for ERC-721 contracts.
```
Required: Formatting

Author: updated by your comments

    /// @dev expires should better be less than 30 days
    /// Throws if `msg.sender` is not approved or owner of the tokenId.
    /// @param tokenId The NFT to set privilege for
    /// @param privilegeId The privilege to set
    /// @param user The privilege holder to set
    /// @param expires For how long the privilege holder can have
    function setPrivilege(uint256 tokenId, uint256 privilegeId, address user, uint256 expires) external;    

    /// @notice Check if a privilege has expired
    /// @param tokenId The identifier of the queried NFT
    /// @param privilegeId The identifier of the queried privilege
    /// @return Whether a user has a certain privilege
    function privilegeExpires(uint256 tokenId, uint256 privilegeId) external view returns(uint256);

    /// @notice Check if a user has a certain privilege
    /// @param tokenId The identifier of the queried NFT
    /// @param privilegeId The identifier of the queried privilege
    /// @param user The address of the queried user
    /// @return Whether a user has a certain privilege
    function hasPrivilege(uint256 tokenId, uint256 privilegeId, address user) external view returns(bool);
}
```

> Every contract implementing the `ERC721P` SHOULD set a maximum privilege number before setting any privilege, the privilegeId MUST NOT be greater than the maximum privilege number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Every contract implementing the `ERC721P` SHOULD set a maximum privilege number before setting any privilege, the `privilegeId` MUST NOT be greater than the maximum privilege number.
```
Required: formatting

Author: updated by your comments

The `PrivilegeAssigned` event MUST be emitted when `setPrivilege` is called.

The `PrivilegeTransfered` event MUST be emitted when `transferPrivilege` is called.

The `supportsInterface` method MUST return `true` when called with `0x076e1bbb`.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Recommended: formatting

Author: updated by your comments

```solidity
/// @title ERC-721P Cloneable extension - Optional
interface IERC721PCloneable {
    /// @notice Emitted when set the `privilege ` of a NFT cloneable.
    event PrivilegeCloned(uint tokenId, uint privId, address from, address to);

    /// @notice set a certain privilege cloneable
    /// @param tokenId The identifier of the queried NFT
    /// @param privilegeId The identifier of the queried privilege
    /// @param referrer The address of the referrer
    /// @return Whether the operation is sucessful or not
    function clonePrivilege(uint tokenId, uint privId, address referrer) external returns (bool);
}
```

> The `PrivilegeCloned` event MUST be emitted when `clonePrivilege` is called.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The `PrivilegeCloned` event MUST be emitted when `clonePrivilege` is called.
```

Required: formatting

## Rationale

### Multiple privileges

> Current ERC-721 standard only record the ownership and its transfer, the privileges of an NFT are not recorded on-chain. This extension would allow merchants/projects to give out a certain privilege to a specified group of people, and owners of the privileges can manage each one of the privileges independently. This facilitates a great possibility for NFTs to have real usefulness. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
EIP-721 only records the ownership and its transfer, the privileges of an NFT are not recorded on-chain. This extension would allow merchants/projects to give out a certain privilege to a specified group of people, and owners of the privileges can manage each one of the privileges independently. This facilitates a great possibility for NFTs to have real usefulness. 
```
Required: Replace ERC with EIP
Required: Fix grammar
Recommended: rewording

### Sharable privileges

The number of privilege holders is limited by the number of NFTs if privileges are non-sharable. A sharable privilege means the original privilege holder can copy the privilege and give it to the others, not transferring his/her own privilege to the others. This mechanism greatly enhances the spread of privileges as well as the adoption of NFTs. 

## Backwards Compatibility

> ERC721P is compatible to any kind of NFTs that follow ERC-721 standard. It only adds more functions and data structures without interfering with original ERC-721 standard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ERC721P is compatible with any kind of NFTs that follow the EIP-721 standard. It only adds more functions and data structures without interfering with the original EIP-721 standard.
```
Required: fix grammar
Required: Replace ERC with EIP

Author: DONE

## Test Cases

> Test cases are implemented in the reference implementation
> repository [here](https://github.com/wnft/ERC721P/tree/main/test)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test cases are implemented in the reference implementation:

- [`test.js`](../assets/eip-5496/test/test.js)
- [`testCloneable.js`](../assets/eip-5496/test/testCloneable.js)
```

Required: formatting
Required: no external links
Recommended: link to assets folder

## Reference Implementation

> The following is a snippet for reference implementation of the `ERC721P` extension. The full repository can be
> found [here](https://github.com/wnft/ERC721P/blob/main/contracts/ERC721P.sol)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The below is the reference implementation of the `ERC721P` extension and links to the full files:

- [`ERC721P.sol`](../assets/eip-5496/contracts/ERC721P.sol)
- [`ERC721PCloneableDemo.sol`](../assets/eip-5496/contracts/ERC721PCloneableDemo.sol)
- [`ERC721PDemo.sol`](../assets/eip-5496/contracts/ERC721PDemo.sol)
- [`IERC721P.sol`](../assets/eip-5496/contracts/IERC721P.sol)
```

Required: formatting
Required: no external links
Recommended: link to assets folder
Recommended: rewording

```solidity
// SPDX-License-Identifier: CC0-1.0
pragma solidity ^0.8.0; 

import "@openzeppelin/contracts/token/ERC721/ERC721.sol";

> import "@openzeppelin/contracts/utils/introspection/IERC165.sol";

Reviewer: Required: No external references
